README.md, before:

# JSON Viewer

**Transform raw JSON into something beautiful.**

A high-performance Chrome extension that makes JSON readable, navigable, and editable - right in your browser.

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Chrome Web Store](https://img.shields.io/badge/Chrome-Extension-green.svg)](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/json-viewer/cpjmnaccoabkopabenjobiimlppmmpjn)

![JSON Viewer](docs/screenshots/01-tree-view.png)

---

## Install

**[Install from Chrome Web Store](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/json-viewer/cpjmnaccoabkopabenjobiimlppmmpjn)** (Recommended)

Or load from source:
1. Clone: `git clone https://github.com/kunalbabre/JsonViewer.git`
2. Open `chrome://extensions/`
3. Enable "Developer mode"
4. Click "Load unpacked" and select the folder

---

## Features

### Five View Modes

Switch between views instantly with a single click:

| View | Description |
|------|-------------|
| **Tree** | Collapsible nodes with syntax highlighting. Perfect for exploring nested structures. |
| **Editor** | Full-featured JSON editor with line numbers, formatting, and validation. |
| **Schema** | Visualize data types and structure at a glance. |
| **YAML** | Instant JSON-to-YAML conversion for config files. |
| **Raw** | Original JSON string with easy copy option. |

#### Tree View
![Tree View](docs/screenshots/02-tree-expanded.png)
*Expand and collapse nodes to explore your JSON structure*

#### Editor View
![Editor View](docs/screenshots/03-editor-view.png)
*Edit JSON directly with syntax highlighting and line numbers*

#### Schema View
![Schema View](docs/screenshots/04-schema-view.png)
*Understand your data structure with type annotations*

#### YAML View
![YAML View](docs/screenshots/05-yaml-view.png)
*View JSON converted to YAML format*

---

### Powerful Search

Find what you need instantly:

![Search](docs/screenshots/07-search.png)

- Search across **keys and values**
- **Real-time highlighting** as you type
- Navigate matches with **Enter** / **Shift+Enter**
- **Regex support** for advanced queries

---

### Smart Controls

![Toolbar](docs/screenshots/09-toolbar.png)

| Action | Shortcut | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| **Copy** | `Ctrl/⌘+C` | Copy JSON to clipboard |
| **Save** | `Ctrl/⌘+S` | Download as .json file |
| **Format** | `Alt+Shift+F` | Pretty-print with indentation |
| **Find** | `Ctrl/⌘+F` | Focus search input |
| **Theme** | `Ctrl/⌘+T` | Toggle light/dark mode |

#### Level-Based Expand/Collapse

![Level Controls](docs/screenshots/08-level-controls.png)

Expand or collapse all nodes to a specific depth level (1-5).

---

### DevTools Integration

A dedicated **JSON Viewer** panel in Chrome DevTools lets you:
- Monitor network requests with JSON responses
- Click any request to view formatted JSON
- Filter requests by URL or content type
- Paste JSON manually for quick viewing

---

### Performance Optimized

Built for speed with large files:

| Feature | Benefit |
|---------|---------|
| **Lazy rendering** | Only visible nodes hit the DOM |
| **Batched processing** | Prevents UI blocking on large files |
| **View caching** | Instant tab switching |
| **Virtual scrolling** | Handles 100,000+ nodes smoothly |

**Benchmark (5.5MB JSON file):**
- Initial render: **~12ms** (87% faster than naive approach)
- DOM nodes: **90% reduction** via lazy loading
- Memory: **~3MB** vs ~32MB traditional

---

### Works Everywhere

- **Auto-detects JSON** in browser tabs
- **Local files** - Open .json files directly
- **Context menu** - Right-click selected text → "View JSON Snippet"
- **Light & dark themes** - Matches system preference
- **100% offline** - No data sent anywhere

---

## Keyboard Shortcuts

| Shortcut | Action |
|----------|--------|
| `Ctrl/⌘ + F` | Focus search |
| `Enter` | Next search match |
| `Shift + Enter` | Previous search match |
| `Ctrl/⌘ + C` | Copy JSON |
| `Ctrl/⌘ + S` | Save to file |
| `Ctrl/⌘ + T` | Toggle theme |
| `Alt + Shift + F` | Format JSON (Editor) |
| `Ctrl/⌘ + Enter` | Apply changes (Editor) |

---

## Privacy

JSON Viewer works **100% offline**. Your data is processed locally and never sent anywhere. No tracking. No analytics. No servers.

---

## Development

### Project Structure

```
JsonViewer/
├── manifest.json           # Extension manifest (v3)
├── src/
│   ├── background.js       # Service worker
│   ├── content.js          # Page injection
│   ├── styles.css          # Global styles
│   ├── ui/                 # UI components
│   │   ├── Viewer.js       # Main controller
│   │   ├── TreeView.js     # Tree view
│   │   ├── EditorView.js   # Editor view
│   │   ├── SchemaView.js   # Schema view
│   │   ├── YamlView.js     # YAML view
│   │   ├── Toolbar.js      # Toolbar
│   │   └── Icons.js        # SVG icons
│   ├── utils/              # Utilities
│   └── devtools/           # DevTools panel
├── tests/                  # E2E tests
├── scripts/                # Build scripts
└── docs/                   # Documentation
```

### Scripts

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `npm test` | Run all tests |
| `npm run test:e2e` | Run editor E2E tests |
| `npm run test:perf` | Run performance tests |
| `npm run test:devtools` | Test DevTools panel |
| `npm run test:full` | Run full E2E test suite |
| `npm run doc` | Generate screenshots & documentation |
| `npm run record -- --voice` | Record demo video with AI voiceover |
| `npm run package` | Bump version & package for Chrome Web Store |
| `npm run repackage` | Package without version bump |
| `npm run typecheck` | Run TypeScript type checking |
| `npm run lint` | Run ESLint |
| `npm run lint:fix` | Auto-fix lint issues |
| `npm run clean` | Remove build artifacts |

### Demo Video Recording

```bash
# Record with AI voiceover (requires .env with ELEVENLABS_API_KEY)
npm run record -- --voice

# Record with macOS voice (no API key needed)
# Comment out ELEVENLABS_API_KEY in .env first
npm run record -- --voice

# Record without voice (subtitles only)
npm run record
```

---

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`
3. Make your changes
4. Test thoroughly with various JSON files
5. Commit: `git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`
6. Push: `git push origin feature/amazing-feature`
7. Open a Pull Request

---

## Author

**Kunal Babre** - [@kunalbabre](https://github.com/kunalbabre)

---

## License

[MIT](LICENSE)

---

**Free. Open source. No ads. Just JSON, done right.**

Commit message:

feat: add YouTube upload functionality for demo videos and update audio timeline

README.md, after:

# JSON Viewer

**Transform raw JSON into something beautiful.**

A high-performance Chrome extension that makes JSON readable, navigable, and editable - right in your browser.

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Chrome Web Store](https://img.shields.io/badge/Chrome-Extension-green.svg)](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/json-viewer/cpjmnaccoabkopabenjobiimlppmmpjn)

![JSON Viewer](docs/screenshots/01-tree-view.png)

---

## Install

**[Install from Chrome Web Store](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/json-viewer/cpjmnaccoabkopabenjobiimlppmmpjn)** (Recommended)

Or load from source:
1. Clone: `git clone https://github.com/kunalbabre/JsonViewer.git`
2. Open `chrome://extensions/`
3. Enable "Developer mode"
4. Click "Load unpacked" and select the folder

---

## Features

### Five View Modes

Switch between views instantly with a single click:

| View | Description |
|------|-------------|
| **Tree** | Collapsible nodes with syntax highlighting. Perfect for exploring nested structures. |
| **Editor** | Full-featured JSON editor with line numbers, formatting, and validation. |
| **Schema** | Visualize data types and structure at a glance. |
| **YAML** | Instant JSON-to-YAML conversion for config files. |
| **Raw** | Original JSON string with easy copy option. |

#### Tree View
![Tree View](docs/screenshots/02-tree-expanded.png)
*Expand and collapse nodes to explore your JSON structure*

#### Editor View
![Editor View](docs/screenshots/03-editor-view.png)
*Edit JSON directly with syntax highlighting and line numbers*

#### Schema View
![Schema View](docs/screenshots/04-schema-view.png)
*Understand your data structure with type annotations*

#### YAML View
![YAML View](docs/screenshots/05-yaml-view.png)
*View JSON converted to YAML format*

---

### Powerful Search

Find what you need instantly:

![Search](docs/screenshots/07-search.png)

- Search across **keys and values**
- **Real-time highlighting** as you type
- Navigate matches with **Enter** / **Shift+Enter**
- **Regex support** for advanced queries

---

### Smart Controls

![Toolbar](docs/screenshots/09-toolbar.png)

| Action | Shortcut | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| **Copy** | `Ctrl/⌘+C` | Copy JSON to clipboard |
| **Save** | `Ctrl/⌘+S` | Download as .json file |
| **Format** | `Alt+Shift+F` | Pretty-print with indentation |
| **Find** | `Ctrl/⌘+F` | Focus search input |
| **Theme** | `Ctrl/⌘+T` | Toggle light/dark mode |

#### Level-Based Expand/Collapse

![Level Controls](docs/screenshots/08-level-controls.png)

Expand or collapse all nodes to a specific depth level (1-5).

---

### DevTools Integration

A dedicated **JSON Viewer** panel in Chrome DevTools lets you:
- Monitor network requests with JSON responses
- Click any request to view formatted JSON
- Filter requests by URL or content type
- Paste JSON manually for quick viewing

---

### Performance Optimized

Built for speed with large files:

| Feature | Benefit |
|---------|---------|
| **Lazy rendering** | Only visible nodes hit the DOM |
| **Batched processing** | Prevents UI blocking on large files |
| **View caching** | Instant tab switching |
| **Virtual scrolling** | Handles 100,000+ nodes smoothly |

**Benchmark (5.5MB JSON file):**
- Initial render: **~12ms** (87% faster than naive approach)
- DOM nodes: **90% reduction** via lazy loading
- Memory: **~3MB** vs ~32MB traditional

---

### Works Everywhere

- **Auto-detects JSON** in browser tabs
- **Local files** - Open .json files directly
- **Context menu** - Right-click selected text → "View JSON Snippet"
- **Light & dark themes** - Matches system preference
- **100% offline** - No data sent anywhere

---

## Keyboard Shortcuts

| Shortcut | Action |
|----------|--------|
| `Ctrl/⌘ + F` | Focus search |
| `Enter` | Next search match |
| `Shift + Enter` | Previous search match |
| `Ctrl/⌘ + C` | Copy JSON |
| `Ctrl/⌘ + S` | Save to file |
| `Ctrl/⌘ + T` | Toggle theme |
| `Alt + Shift + F` | Format JSON (Editor) |
| `Ctrl/⌘ + Enter` | Apply changes (Editor) |

---

## Privacy

JSON Viewer works **100% offline**. Your data is processed locally and never sent anywhere. No tracking. No analytics. No servers.

---

## Development

### Project Structure

```
JsonViewer/
├── manifest.json           # Extension manifest (v3)
├── src/
│   ├── background.js       # Service worker
│   ├── content.js          # Page injection
│   ├── styles.css          # Global styles
│   ├── ui/                 # UI components
│   │   ├── Viewer.js       # Main controller
│   │   ├── TreeView.js     # Tree view
│   │   ├── EditorView.js   # Editor view
│   │   ├── SchemaView.js   # Schema view
│   │   ├── YamlView.js     # YAML view
│   │   ├── Toolbar.js      # Toolbar
│   │   └── Icons.js        # SVG icons
│   ├── utils/              # Utilities
│   └── devtools/           # DevTools panel
├── tests/                  # E2E tests
├── scripts/                # Build scripts
└── docs/                   # Documentation
```

### Scripts

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `npm test` | Run all tests |
| `npm run test:e2e` | Run editor E2E tests |
| `npm run test:perf` | Run performance tests |
| `npm run test:devtools` | Test DevTools panel |
| `npm run test:full` | Run full E2E test suite |
| `npm run doc` | Generate screenshots & documentation |
| `npm run record -- --voice` | Record demo video with AI voiceover |
| `npm run upload` | Upload demo video to YouTube |
| `npm run package` | Bump version & package for Chrome Web Store |
| `npm run repackage` | Package without version bump |
| `npm run typecheck` | Run TypeScript type checking |
| `npm run lint` | Run ESLint |
| `npm run lint:fix` | Auto-fix lint issues |
| `npm run clean` | Remove build artifacts |

### Demo Video Recording

```bash
# Record with AI voiceover (requires .env with ELEVENLABS_API_KEY)
npm run record -- --voice

# Record with macOS voice (no API key needed)
# Comment out ELEVENLABS_API_KEY in .env first
npm run record -- --voice

# Record without voice (subtitles only)
npm run record
```

### YouTube Upload

Upload recorded videos directly to YouTube:

```bash
# Upload with default settings (unlisted)
npm run upload

# Upload with custom title
npm run upload -- --title "My Custom Title"

# Upload as public
npm run upload -- --public
```

**One-time setup:**
1. Go to [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com)
2. Create a project and enable "YouTube Data API v3"
3. Create OAuth 2.0 credentials (Desktop App type)
4. Download the JSON and save as `youtube-client-secret.json` in project root
5. First run will open browser for authorization

---

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`
3. Make your changes
4. Test thoroughly with various JSON files
5. Commit: `git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`
6. Push: `git push origin feature/amazing-feature`
7. Open a Pull Request

---

## Author

**Kunal Babre** - [@kunalbabre](https://github.com/kunalbabre)

---

## License

[MIT](LICENSE)

---

**Free. Open source. No ads. Just JSON, done right.**
